# FortesFit
Python based multi-component SED fitting package

Spectral Energy Distributions (SEDs) are discretely sampled functions of energy that describe the luminous output of an astronomical object. The independent variable is the photon energy of radiation, more often represented by frequency or wavelength. The dependent variable is the energy flux from the object, usually represented in energy units such as erg/s or Watts. Observed SEDs are usually cast in luminance units (e.g., erg/s/cm^2 or W/m^2), and often in specific flux units (e.g., erg/s/cm^2/micron or W/M^2/Hz), the energy received from the source on the surface of a hypothetical Earth that is free of atmospheric or local absorption effects.

SEDs are the fundamental spectral (i.e., energy-dependent) descriptions of astronomical bodies, since electromagnetic radiation is often the only messenger of information available for objects in deep space. An SED may be understood as the emission from various components that add linearly along the line of sight to an astronomical body. Therefore, the main aim of SED analysis is to use an observed SED to identify and constrain the contributions from these different components.

In FortesFit, we distinguish between SEDs and spectrograms (or spectra). The latter are generally close to continguous and offer a higher spectral resolution compared to SEDs. For our purposes, we define an SED as a collection of photometry taken through individual filter bands (physical or synthetic). The independent variable is therefore not taken to be energy of the radiation itself, but the actually filter bands used to observe the astronomical source. A filter band describes the response of the astronomical observation (composed of the atmosphere, telescope, instrument, and detector) to the light from the source. Therefore, it encapsulates the actual spectral information inherent in the corresponding piece of photometry from the SED.
